harddrive1.arff - Hard drive failure prediction/SMART data set


Contributed by:  Joseph Murray   (jfmurray@jfmurray.org)
                 Gordon Hughes   (gfhughes@ucsd.edu)
                 Kenneth Kreutz-Delgado   (kreutz@ece.ucsd.edu)

                 Center for Magnetic Recording Research (CMRR)
                 University of California, San Diego

                 April 4, 2005

Data set and references available at:

    http://cmrr.ucsd.edu/smart/
    http://jfmurray.org

If you use this data set, we ask that you cite:

 J. F. Murray, G. F. Hughes, K. Kreutz-Delgado
     "Comparison of machine learning methods for predicting failures in hard
     drives"
     Journal of Machine Learning Research, vol 6, 2005.

    (Available online at http://jmlr.org)

---- SMART data set description:

Each line in the data section contains the data from one SMART read (2 hour
time frame), with the last column either 1 (for drives that eventually failed)
or 0 (for drives that were good throughout testing).

The text file format used is the Attribute Relation File Format (ARFF) (see
http://www.cs.waikato.ac.nz/~ml/weka/arff.html), which is a simple and
standard format that can be used by publicly-available machine learning
software (such as Weka, http://www.cs.waikato.ac.nz/~ml/weka/).

Please see the references below for more details about the data set.

---- Hints:

Hard drives are reliable devices: the true yearly failure rate is about
0.3% to 3.0%, and so any failure prediction algorithm must be very
resistant to false alarms (i.e. predicting a failure for a drive that is
actually working well).  Hard drive manufacturers need SMART algorithms
that have about 0.1% false alarm rate.

An important part of any machine learning method for SMART is controlling
the false alarm rate and finding the tradeoff between FA rate and correct
failure detections.  Using classifiers with cost-sensitivity is important
so that the cost of FA's can be weighed highly and reduced.

Since this data set (harddrive1.arff) is relatively small with 178 good
drives, we are mainly interested in finding the detection rate between 0.0%
and 0.56% FA, although it is useful to make an ROC curve up to about 3%
FA's.

Many of the attributes are nonparametrically distributed.  Many attributes
will have a large number of zero-counts.  Standard scaling techniques may
not give useful results.

Early samples in the time history of the drives may contain some garbage,
be wary of samples with low Hours (<~ 10 hours).

It is unknown how many hours in advance an impending failure can be
detected.  A number of techniques can be used to deal with this.  During
training, data from good drives can be used to make a model of normal drive
behavior, and during testing, we can perform anomaly detection from this
model.  Another option is to use the Multiple-Instance Framework, which
attempts to label each pattern from a failed drive as being representative
of either a good or failing drive operation.


---- References:

Joseph F. Murray, Gordon F. Hughes, Kenneth Kreutz-Delgado
     "Comparison of machine learning methods for predicting failures in hard
     drives"
     Journal of Machine Learning Research, vol 6, 2005.

Joseph F. Murray, Gordon F. Hughes, and Kenneth Kreutz-Delgado.
    "Hard drive failure prediction using non-parametric statistical
    methods."
    In Proceedings of the International Conference on Artificial
    Neural Networks (ICANN) 2003, Istanbul, Turkey, June 2003.

Gordon F. Hughes, Joseph F. Murray, Kenneth Kreutz-Delgado, and Charles Elkan.
    "Improved disk-drive failure warnings."
    IEEE Transactions on Reliability, vol. 51 no. 3
    pages 350-357, September 2002.

Greg Hamerly and Charles Elkan.
    "Bayesian approaches to failure prediction for disk drives."
    In Eighteenth International Conference on Machine Learning (ICML 2001),
    pages 1-9, 2001.
